There is no doubt that we are living in critical times hard to deal with, just as the Apostle
Paul prophesied under inspiration in 2 Timothy chapter 3.
Many times we have read Matthew chapter 24, Mark 13, Luke 21, and Revelation chapter 6.
But who would ever have known how deeply a pandemic, so-called natural disasters, violence,
and unrest would affect us economically, physically, and even emotionally?
Some of you dear friends face unimaginable hardships.
Many have experienced loss of loved ones, imprisonment, physical abuse, sickness, financial
problems, and sometimes a number of these or other circumstances all at the same time.
You dear brothers and sisters are in our prayers.
With this in mind, the theme for our program is, in difficult times, Jehovah always comforts.
A scripture that's become familiar to Jehovah's people is 2 Corinthians chapter 1, verses
3 and 4.
Praise be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of tender mercies,
and the God of all comfort, who comforts us in all our trials, so that we may be able
to comfort others in any sort of trial, with the comfort that we receive from God.
The study Bible says this regarding the expression the Father of tender mercies.
The Greek noun rendered tender mercies is here used to describe a feeling of compassion
or pity for others.
God is called the Father, or the source of tender mercies because compassion emanates
from Him and is part of His nature.
Such tender feelings move Him to act mercifully in behalf of His faithful servants who are
suffering tribulation.
Regarding the phrase, the God of all comfort, it continues.
The Greek noun here rendered comfort literally means, a calling to one's side.
It conveys the idea of standing next to a person, helping or encouraging him when he's undergoing
trials or feeling sad.
God uses His powerful active force to give comfort and help, in situations that from a human
viewpoint seem hopeless.
Think about what that means.
And Jehovah wants us to know that whatever we face, he is by our side helping us when
we're undergoing any sort of trial.
No, he did not promise that he'd remove our trials.
Rather, he eases our misery or grief whenever we undergo difficulties.
What a beautiful word picture of God standing next to us, especially when things seem hopeless.
We invite you to do a personal study project.
Using the publication Research Guide for Jehovah's Witnesses or the Watchtower Online Library,
do a word search on comfort.
You'll be drawn even closer to Jehovah and appreciate His unmatched desire and ability
to comfort.
Jehovah also inspired Paul to show how he would stand by us to comfort us.
Notice Romans chapter 15 and verse 4.
For all the things that were written beforehand were written for our instruction so that through
our endurance and through the comfort from the Scriptures, we might have hope.
Time limits us from going into all the ways that the Bible does this.
But let's take some examples.
A scripture that Jehovah's people have often meditated on in recent times is found in Jeremiah
chapter 29, when Jehovah inspired Jeremiah to convey his message to the Jews.
They had been taken from Jerusalem and were captives in Babylon.
They were downhearted, but even while in captivity, Jehovah provided a comforting message.
Notice His words in Jeremiah chapter 29, verse 10.
When 70 years at Babylon are fulfilled, I will turn my attention to you.
God told these Jewish exiles that they would remain in captivity for a long time.
Then He made clear to them that He had a peaceful future in mind.
The latter part of that verse says, and I will make good by promise by bringing you back
to this place.
In verse 11, He says, I will know the thoughts that I am thinking toward you, declares
of peace and not of calamity, to give you a future and a hope.
God did make good on His promise to those Israelites.
He let them know that their future was to be a bright one.
Regarding Jeremiah 29, 11, one commentary states,
it is difficult to find a more wonderful promise anywhere in Scripture that expresses
the tender compassion of Yahweh, Jehovah, toward these exiles and setting before them at last
a real reason for optimism and expectation.
Jehovah's promise strengthened men such as Jeremiah, Ezekiel, and Daniel.
Jehovah reassured the Jews by repeating His promise at Jeremiah 31, verse 17,
and there is a hope for your future.
Your sons will return to their own territory.
Sure enough, just as Jehovah foretold, Babylon was conquered by the Persian king Cyrus,
who allowed the exiles Jews to return to their homeland.
After 70 years of captivity, they were back in Jerusalem.
Jehovah made good on His promise.
What does that have to do with us today?
The fulfilled promises of Jehovah assure us that His promises to us will come true
in spite of surrounding circumstances as He said, I will make good my promise.
How comforting to know that, but we know that the greatest expression of Jehovah's comfort
is His only begotten Son, Jesus.
During His time on earth He gave people hope, Jesus engaged in a marvelous ministry
healing the sick, performing powerful works, and most important,
teaching people about God's kingdom.
However, the greatest expression of hope to us humans is Jesus' ransom sacrifice.
Through His inspired word, we can see that Jehovah assures us that He not only understands what we face,
but also desires to console and strengthen us.
Our loving Heavenly Father especially watches over all who endeavour to do His will,
but in all of His mercy He also draws humble people who may not yet know Him.
How many of us were in dire straits only to be introduced to the truth and to get to know
Jehovah at the right time? That was no coincidence. That's a consequence of Jehovah's love,
and His desire to give people comfort through the hope He provides.
Dear brothers and sisters, as we get closer to the Great Tribulation,
we will face more distressing circumstances and during the Great Tribulation,
our trust in Jehovah must be solid. We need to be sensitive and receptive to the ways in which
He consoles and strengthens us. We need to keep in mind what Paul says at 2 Corinthians chapter
1 verse 4, perhaps even memorizing it. Jehovah is a God who comforts us in all our trunks.
Some time ago we interviewed two long-time members of the United States Bethel family.
Brother Gerald Grizzle, a helper to the Personnel Committee, and Brother Sam Robertson.
These two brothers served as traveling overseers for many years prior to coming to Bethel.
Brother Grizzle has served at Bethel since 1978, and Brother Robertson has served here for nearly 20 years.
They've been assigned by the governing body to assist them in shepherding the United States Bethel family.
Shepherding the Bethel family, you may ask after all, Bethelites don't have any distressing trials.
Listen to what our dear brothers have to say. Brother Grizzle, what are some of the challenges
that members of the Bethel family face? The worldwide Bethel family is a representation
of the Brotherhood. By that I mean that just as 1 Peter chapter 5 verse 9 says,
they face the same kind of sufferings being experienced by the entire association
of our brothers in the world. Some deal with the serious health problems, but they continue to serve.
Others have concerns over aging parents, and some have to give up their beloved Bethel service.
Still others contend with bounce of depression, but the spirit of these dear brothers and sisters
impels them to have the determination not to allow these challenges to dominate them,
rather their faith in Jehovah's strengthens their resolve to focus on their assignments.
Thank you for that insight, Brother Grizzle. Brother Robertson, how have you been able to comfort such
once? When we find out a Bethelite is going through a tragedy, there are four things that we do.
Number one, we pray for them and develop specific spiritual points according to their needs.
And that's before we make the call. Number two, when we actually make the call,
we really listen. And I don't mean we just listen with our ears. We try to listen with our hearts.
We try to feel what they feel. We try to have compassion.
Number three, when we use God's word to remind them they're not facing their crisis alone,
this is very effective. As an example, we called on a brother recently who was going through a great
trial. And we shared among other things Exodus chapter three and verse seven and 12. Let's take a
look at that. I have certainly seen the affliction of my people who are in Egypt. And I've heard
their outcry because of those who forced them to work. And out the ending point here, it's very
beautiful. Jehovah doesn't say I know how my people feel. He says, I will know the pains of my people.
And then in giving assurance, dealing with Moses fearing to go before Pharaoh in verse 12, just the
A part to this he said, I will prove to be with you. Just a few words, but so powerful where Jehovah is
guaranteeing that he's going to give them undeniable proof that he's backing them up and never
moving away from them one inch. And this gives us comfort. Now number four, before we conclude the
call, we have an ending prayer with them. And we use their names. And this is very comforting since
we're calling on Jehovah, the great shepherd. At first, Thessalonians 5, 14, Paul says, we urge you
brothers to speak consolingly to those who are depressed, to support the weak, be patient toward
all. And this is exactly what we're trying to do. Thanks for sharing those thoughts. Very
interesting. Brothers, Grizzle and Robertson, how has comforting others affected you?
Brother Grizzle, first, please. During these challenging times, I sense Jehovah's love for his people.
Over the years, I have seen and experienced his care when facing difficult times.
Some years ago, I lost my mother, my brother, and my father in death all within a year.
And in 2017, I lost my dear wife, Bonnie, after we had served Jehovah together for nearly 65 years.
But with my prayer, research, and love of the friends, Jehovah has comforted me.
And now, thankfully, I have been able to offer encouragement to others.
Very touching, brother Grizzle. Thank you.
Brother Robertson, how has comforting others affected you?
One of the most memorable challenges was while my wife, Linda and I were in the circuit work
several years ago. I lost my voice. I had to have surgery on my vocal cords and for six weeks,
I could not talk. For a circuit overseer, that's like being a bird without its wings.
I wrote more notes in that six weeks than I had written in my whole life.
But in spite of that, and along with other situations and tragedies that we face similar to
Gerald's, Jehovah has seen us through them all. And let me say it's been a real pleasure to
share Jehovah's comfort with so many. And as we do, we see the governing body's interest in all
of Jehovah's people, including those with added responsibility. They truly reflect Jehovah's feelings
as the God of all comfort. Well, thank you, brothers. We really appreciate your comments.
And more than the shepherding that you do is the example that you have set in enduring trials,
experiencing Jehovah's comfort and in comforting others. Thank you so much.
The governing body has instituted similar shepherding arrangements in branch offices
around the world. Now we want to talk to some of you in our audience.
Because of stresses, disappointments, and hurt feelings caused by fellow believers,
some have strayed from Jehovah's organization. Others may have been removed from the congregation,
but now would like to return. To you we say, allow Jehovah to comfort and strengthen you.
He wants you to draw close to him, and he will help you.
James chapter 4 verse 8 says,
draw close to God, and he will draw close to you. Jehovah has great care for such ones.
Let's read what he says at Ezekiel chapter 34 verse 16.
The stray I will bring back, the injured I will bandage, and the weak I will strengthen.
Some who have recovered have said that one of the most difficult things for them to do was
across the threshold of the kingdom hall. But remember, it's Jehovah who bandages you,
his sheep, helping you to heal. In the same chapter in verse 12, he says,
I will care for my sheep. I will rescue them from all the places where they were scattered,
in imitation of that love. The faithful slave says, we view you as lost sheep,
not a lost cause. To all we say, no matter what you face, remember, in difficult times,
Jehovah always comforts.